B1 – Basis for Preparation
68. When reporting on the legal form of the undertaking according to national legislation  under
paragraph 24(e)(i) , the undertaking can choose from one of the following undertaking structures:
(a) private limited liability undertaking
(b) sole proprietorship
(c) partnership
(d) cooperative
(e) other (please specify  based on country specifications  for legal forms ).
69. When reporting on the NACE  code(s) of the undertaking under pa ragraph  24(e)(ii), NACE codes
(Nomenclature statistique des Activités économiques dans la Communauté Européenne) are
classification s of economic activities used in the European Union. They provide a standardized
framework for classifying economic activities into sectors, enabling comparability and a common
understanding among the various EU countries.
70. The NACE code consists of a number of digits ranging from 2 to 5 depending on the level of
specificity with which the economic activity is identified. The list of NACE codes can be found in
the following document: REGULATION (EC) No 1893/2006 .
Level
Nr Identifier  Description
1 Section  Sections are identified by an alphabetic letter, and they define 21 general
economic areas such as agriculture, manufacturing industry or commerce.
2 Division  The division is identified by a two -digit numerical code and identifies a
specific sector within the general economic area. There are a total of 88
divisions.
3 Group  The group is identified by a three -digit numerical code (also considering the
division's two digits) and defines a specific area within the sector. There are
about 270 groups.
4 Class  The class is identified by a four -digit numerical code (considering the digits
of division and group) and defines a specific activity within the group. There
are about 450 classes.
71. When repor ting the number of employees  under paragraph 24(e)( v), full-time equivalent (FTE) is
the number of full -time positions in an undertaking.  It can be calculated by dividing an employee's
scheduled hours (total effective hours worked in a week) by the employer's hours for a full -time
workweek (total hours performed by full -time employees). For example, an employee who works
25 hours every week for a company where the full -time week is 40 hours represents a 0,625 FTE
(i.e. 25/ 40 hours).
72. Headcount is the total number of people employed by the undertaking at a given time.

VSME Standard
73. When reporting on the country of primary operations and the location of significant assets  under
paragraph s 24(e)( vi) and (vii) , the undertaking shall disclose this information for each of its sites
using the table below:
Sites Address  Postal Code  City Country  Coordinates
(geolocation)
Registered Office
(e.g.)
Warehouse (e.g.)
Industrial Plant
(e.g.)
74. The geolocation of an undertaking is expected to be a valuable datapoint for stakeholders for the
assessment of risks and opportunities  connected to the SME , particularly in relation to the
sustainability issues  of climate change  adaptation , water , ecosystems  and biodiversity.
75. The geolocation shall be provided in spatial points for single units or polygon points defining the
boundaries of a larger, less unit -like site, such as a farm, mine or facility. The undertaking may
also provide a cluster of points to allow for the easy identification of the concerned area.  The spatial
points shall be provided as coordinates, with five decimal places  (e.g. 0° 00′ 0.036″).
76. When disclosing the geolocation of sites  owned, leased, or managed, the undertaking shall includ e
the coordinates of the sites in the table  shown in paragraph 73. The undertaking may use web
mapping tools ( e.g. google maps, apple maps)  to identify the coordinates of sites that it owns,
leases or manages . The undertaking may also use any appropriate software tools or platforms to
further  establish the perimeter or area of larger sites .
77. In relation to paragraph 2 5, sustainabil ity-related certification  can include  registered eco -label s
from an EU, national or international labelling scheme , corresponding to the main activity of an
SME. For instance, the EU Ecolabel  covers specific products , such as textiles  and footwear ,
coverings  (e.g. wood floor coverings ), cleaning and personal care products, electronic equipment ,
or furniture. The undertaking may consult the EU Ecolabel Product Groups  and Product Catalogue
for further information .