B10 – Workforce – Remuneration, collective bargaining and training
Guidance on remuneration: minimum wage
192. ‘Minimum wage ’ refers to the minimum compensation of employment per hour or another unit of
time. Depending on the country, the minimum wage might be set directly by law  or through
collective bargaining  agreements.  The undertaking  shall refer to the applicable minimum wage
for the country it reports on .
193. For the lowest pay category, excluding interns and apprentices, minimum wage  serves as the
foundation for calculating entry -level wage. Therefore, entry -level wage includes pay equal to
minimum wage as well as any additional fixed payments guaranteed to employees  in that
category.
Guidance on remuneration: percentage gap between female and male employe es
194. The metric for the percentage gap between female and male employees  address es the principle
of gender equality , which  stipulates  equal pay for equal work. The pay gap is defined as the
difference of average pay levels between female and male employees expressed  as the
percentage of the average pay level of male employees.
195. In order to  compute  this metric, all employees  shall be included in the calculation. In addition,
there should be two separate average pay calculations for female and male  employees . See the
formula below:
(𝐴𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒  𝑔𝑟𝑜𝑠𝑠  ℎ𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑙𝑦  𝑝𝑎𝑦  𝑙𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑙  𝑜𝑓 𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒  𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠 −𝑎𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒  𝑔𝑟𝑜𝑠𝑠  ℎ𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑙𝑦  𝑝𝑎𝑦  𝑙𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑙  𝑜𝑓 𝑓𝑒𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒  𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠 )
𝐴𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒  𝑔𝑟𝑜𝑠𝑠  ℎ𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑙𝑦  𝑝𝑎𝑦  𝑙𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑙  𝑜𝑓 𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒  𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠 𝑥 100
196. Depending on the undertaking’s remuneration policies, gross pay refers to all of the following
elements :

VSME Standard
(a) base salary, which is the sum of guaranteed, short -term, non -variable cash compensation;
(b) benefits in cash, which constitute the sum of the base salary and cash allowances, bonuses,
commissions, cash profit -sharing and other forms of variable cash payments;
(c) benefits in kind such as cars, private health insurance, life insurance and wellness programs;
and
(d) direct remuneration, which is the sum of benefits in cash, benefits in kind and the total fair
value of all annual long -term incentives .
197. The gross pay is the sum of all the applicable elements listed above.
198. The average gross hourly pay is the weekly/annual gross pay divided by the average hours worked
per week/year.
Example
199. Company A has X male employees  and Y female employees  in total . Male employees ’ gross
hourly pay is €15 and female employees’ gross hourly pay is €13.
200. The average gross hourly pay level of male employees  is the sum of all their gross hourly
payments divided by the total number of male employees . The average gross hourly pay level of
female employees is the sum of all their gross hourly payments divided by the total number of
female employees .
201. The formula used to calculate the percentage pay gap between male and female employees  is
15−13
15𝑥 100 = 13.3%
Guidance on collective bargaining  coverage
202. The employees covered by collective bargaining  agreements are those individuals to whom the
undertaking is obliged to apply the agreement. If an employee is covered by more than one
collective bargaining agreement , it only needs to be counted once. If none of the employees are
covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the percentage is zero.
203. The percentage of employees  covered by collective bargaining  agreements is calculated by
using the following formula .
𝑁𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟  𝑜𝑓 𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠  𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑑  𝑏𝑦 𝑐𝑜𝑙𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒  𝑏𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑛𝑔  𝑎𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠
𝑁𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟  𝑜𝑓 𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠 𝑥 100
204. The information required by this disclosure requirement may be reported as coverage rates  if the
collective bargaining  coverage is between 0 -19%, 20 -39%, 40 -59%, 60 -79% or 80 -100%.
205. This requirement is not aimed at obtaining the percentage of employees  represented by a works
council or belonging to trade unions, which can be different. The percentage of employees covered
by collective bargaining  agreements can be higher than the percentage of unionised employees
when the collective bargaining agreements apply to both union and non -union members.
Basic Module Guidance – Business Conduct Metrics