B6 – Water
Guidance on h ow to calculate and report on water withdrawals  and water consumption
142. Water withdrawal  relates to the amount of water an undertaking  draws into its organi sational
boundaries from any source during the reporting period. In practice, for most undertaking s this
relates to the amount of water taken from the public water supply network as indicated in the utility
bills. However, where applicable, water withdrawal also includes amounts of water taken from other
sources  such as groundwater from own wells, water taken from rivers or lakes  or water received
by other undertaking s. In the specific case of undertakings operating in agriculture, water
withdrawal  would  include rainwater  if collected directly and stored  by the undertaking .
143. Water withdrawal  data can be retrieved from measurements using flow meters or water bills;
indeed, in practice for most undertakings water withdrawal relates to the amount of water taken
from the public water supply network as indicated in the utility bills. In cases in w hich direct
measurements are not feasible or are deemed not sufficient and therefore need to be
complemented, data on water withdrawal can be estimated using , for example , calculations
models, and industry standards.
144. For example, in the case of a shared office or coworking space, a possible method to calculate the
water withdrawal  could be to retrieve the overall water withdrawal of the building from the water
bill and calculate the water withdrawal per employee  with the following equation:
Water withdrawal per employee daily (L) = annual water withdrawal (L) / (n. of employees in the whole
shared building x n. of working days) .
The undertaking could then multiply the water withdrawal per employee for the number of its
employees and the days they worked in the reporting year to obtain the final number required in
the datapoint.
To make a numerical example applying the proposed formula, the annual water withdrawal
retrieved from the water bill of a coworking space is 1296 m3 (corresponding to 1296000 L),

VSME Standard
coworking space where 100 employees of different companies work together for an assumed
number of 240 days a year. The assumption on the average number of days worked can be
based on national statistics , for example. The water withdrawal per employee daily would be in
this case:
water withdrawal per employee daily = 1296000 L / (100x240) = 54 L
145. Assuming now that that the employees  of the reporting undertaking are 25 and that they use the
coworking space for 220 days a year, the yearly water withdrawal  of the undertaking in the
coworking space would be the water withdrawal per employee multiplied for the number of its
employees and the days worked, therefore 54Lx25x220 = 297000 L (corresponding to 297 m3) .
146. This calculation could be useful when it  is possible to access the water bill of the shared building.
This simple calculation method has some limitations, as it does not consider , for example ,
differences in use between different parts of the building (e.g. a seven -floor building could have six
floors dedicated to offices and one floor with a canteen or a restaurant), which the undertaking
might be able to overcome if additional data are available, further refining the basic calculation
provided above as an example.
147. An alternative way to obtain water withdrawal  data in the example of shared offices when it is not
possible to retrieve the water bill could be to calculate it using fixture flow rates and occupancy
data as primary inputs. A possible formula could be:
Total  water  withdrawal  =
∑(Flow  Rate×Number  of Uses  per Day×Number  of Days  per Year×Occupancy)
where:
(a) flow rates or each fixture can be retrieved from the project documentation or labels of the
fixtures, for example, or estimated basing on average data publicly available if more accurate
information is not retrievable;
(b) the number of uses per day can be estimated based on averages publicly available;
(c) ‘number of days’ stands for the number of operational days for the reporting undertaking in
a year;
(d) ‘occupancy’ represents the number of employees  of the undertaking using the office; it  is
often calculated as full-time equivalent (FTE) ; and
(e) the sign ∑ indicates that the calculations for each fixture should be summed up to obtain the
total water withdrawal of the reporting undertaking operating in a shared office.
148. An additional  possible source that could support the reporting of water withdrawal  for
undertaking s operating in shared offices is the JRC Level(s) indicator 3.1: Use stage water
consumption user manual  as well as additional related documents and calculation sheets (see PG
Section Documents | Product Bureau (europa.eu) ). Furthermore, the undertaking could consult
EMAS Reference Document for the Public Administration sector  and EMAS Reference Document
for the Construction sector  as well as rating systems like the National Australian Built Environment
Rating System (NABERS)  and certifications like the Building Research Establishment
Environmental Assessment Method (BREEM) , the Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design (LEED)  and the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) System for Buildings In Use ,
which might provide useful indications in their methodologies on how to further refine  the
calculation for water withdrawal in offices and shared spaces.
149. The provided examples to obtain water withdrawal  data in the case of shared offices can be
transposed  to and applied by undertakings operating in different sectors, with adjustments that
might be necessary for the sectoral  and entity -specific situation the undertaking operates  in. EMAS
Sectoral Reference Documents (SRDs)  could be consulted for sector -specific methodology and
indicators on water withdrawal as well as industry standards and benchmarks.
150. Water consumption  is the amount of water drawn into the boundaries of the undertaking  that is
not discharged or planned to be discharged back into the water environment or to a third party.
This typically relates to water evaporated – e.g. in thermal energy processes like drying or power
production  – water embedded in products – e.g. in food production – or water for irrigation purposes
– e.g. used in agriculture or for water ing company  premises .

VSME Standard
151. Water d ischarge  means , for example,  the amount of water transferred  directly to receiving water
bodies such as lakes or rivers, the public sewer or to other companies for cascading water use.  It
can be seen as the water output of the undertaking.
152. Water consumption  can therefore be calculated as:
Water consumption = Water Inputs – Water Outputs
or in other words :
Water consumption = (Water withdrawal ) – Water  discharges .
For undertaking s that solely withdraw water from the public water network and discharge it
into the sewer, water consumption will be close to zero and can therefore be omitted from
the report.
More broadly, the applicability of the disclosure requirement on water consumption relates to
information already requested by law, already reported, and/or appropriate for the sector .
153. A schematic view of the relationship between water withdrawal , water consumption  and water
discharge can be seen in the image below .
154. The undertaking  may provide additional explanatory information to contextuali se its water
withdrawal s or consumption. For example, the undertaking  may highlight if rainwater is collected
and used as a replacement for tap water or if water is discharged into other parties for cascading
use.
155. Below can be found  an example of how undertakings may present quantitative  information on their
withdrawals, discharges  and consumption of water divided by site location .
Water withdrawal
E.g. m ³ Water consumption
E.g. m³ (if applicable)
All sites
Sites in areas with water stress
Guidance  for determin ing whether the undertaking operat es in an area of high -water stress
156. The u ndertaking  can consult local (e.g. national, regional) water authorities of the place (s) it
operate s in to inform  its assessment of water resources for th e specific location (s), includ ing the
identification of areas of high-water stress . The undertaking  can also consult public ly available and
free tools that map out water scarcity globally. One such tool is  the WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk
Atlas , which provides an interactive map of a water stress indicator  (the ‘baseline water stress’,
which measures the ratio of total water demand to available renewable surface and groundwater
supplies)  at sub -basin level.  With the help of this tool , undertakings can consult the water stress
baseline set for different river basins globally.  Values of the baseline water stress indicator above
40% indicate an area of high -water  stress.
157. By way of  illustration, t he map below shows the main Iberian River  basins and their water stress
classification according to the WRI Aqueduct.

VSME Standard
In this image  several water basins in the Iberian Peninsula , along with their water stress
classification , can be observed . Most of the southern part of the peninsula sits in an area of
significant high-water stress  – with the exception of the Guadiana basin (in yellow). Thus , if the
undertaking has operations within the Guadalquivir basin ( e.g. the Andalucia region, which has
a significant  high-water stress  level), the undertaking would have to disaggregate its water
consumption  for that region/water basin. But if its operation s take place within the southern part
of the Guadiana river basin ( where there is low water stress) , then it would not be necessary  to
disaggregate its water consumption for that region/water basin .
158. Other possible tools  that undertakings can consult to determine their location in water stressed
areas are the static  map (and related dataset ) provided by the  Europe an Environment Agency
(EEA)  Water Exploitation Index plus (WEI+) for summer and Urban Morphological Zones (UMZ)
and the interactive map  Water exploitation index plus (WEI+) for river basin districts (1990 -2015) ,
both presenting the water stress indicator WEI+ that measur es total water consumption  as a
percentage of the renewable freshwater resources  at sub -basin level.  WEI+ v alues equal or greater
than 40%  generally  indicate situations of high-water  stress.  It is worth underlining that WRI
Aqueduct bases its  baseline water stress indicator on water demand, while the  EEA indicator of
water stress WEI+ is based on water consumption.
Documentation Sources:
Data  Documentation Source
Water withdrawal in shared offices
(measurement)  ‘Water use in your business’, South Staff Water
Water withdrawal in shared offices
(measurement, estimation)  Level(s) indicator 3.1: Use stage water
consumption user manual: introductory briefing,
instructions and guidance (Publication version
1.1), JRC
Water withdrawal (general)  EMAS User Guide
Water withdrawal in SMEs  EMAS "easy" for small and medium enterprises
Water stress  – WRI Aqueduct  Technical Note - Aqueduct 4.0: Updated
decision -relevant global water risk indicators,
WRI

VSME Standard
Water stress – WEI+  Water scarcity conditions in Europe (Water
exploitation index plus) | European Environment
Agency's home page (europa.eu)