B7 – Resource use, circular economy and waste management
Guidance on circular economy principles
159. When disclosing information on its products, material use and waste management, the undertaking
may provide information in relation to circular economy  principles . Circular economy principles
are articulated in  the paragraphs below . The key principles outlined by the Ellen Macarthur
Foundation are underlined  below while the key principles considered by the European Commission
are italicised.
Eliminate waste and pollution  – this can be done through process improvements and also through
design considerations at the level of usability, reusability, repairability , disassembly  and
remanufacturing .
Circulate products and materials (at their highest value)  – reusability  and recycling  are key for
product circulation, but this is enhanced if special consideration is given to circularity at the design
phase for issues such as usability, reusability, repairability, remanufacturing and disassembly .
Factors such as the incorporation of biomaterials  and their recirculation via the biological cycle
can also be considered , for example using biodegradable  crop covers instead of plastics in
agriculture .
Regenerate nature  – whenever possible, human activities should seek to regenerate nature and
improve or restore key ecological functions ( i.e. drainage, habitat provision , thermal regulation,
etc.) that may have been lost due to previous human activities .
Guidance on total waste generation and waste diverted to recycling or reuse
160. The requirements in paragraph 3 8 may be omitted by undertakings that generate only household
waste.  In such case s, the undertaking will only state that it generates this type of waste.
161. When reporting on hazardous waste  according to paragraph 38(a), the undertaking fulfils the
requirements on radioactive waste  of indicator number 9 from Table #1 of Annex 1 of the
Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR)10. This SFDR indicator (ratio between tonnes
of radioactive and hazardous waste ) can be computed by using the numerator and denomi nator
that the undertaking provides when reporting according to paragraph 38(a).
162. SMEs must disclose hazardous and radioactive waste  if their operations involve generating such
waste. Applicability depends on the presence of hazardous or radioactive materials in business
processes.
163. Undertakings are recommended to classify their hazardous waste  using the European Waste
Catalogue (EWC) , which categori ses waste by type. Any waste marked with an asterisk (*) is
classified as hazardous in the EWC, normally with reference to ‘containing hazardous substances’.
For example:
(a) medical sector: contaminated sharps like needles and syringes used in medical settings
(‘wastes whose collection and disposal is subject to special requirements in order to prevent
infection ’ EWC Code 18 01 03*), cytotoxic and cytostatic medicines (EWC Code 18 01 08*),
spent radiopharmaceuticals, and certain diagnostic equipment containing radioactive
materials ;
(b) manufacturing sector: used lubricants and oils classified as hazardous (EWC Code 13 02
05*);
10 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on
sustainability -related disclosures in the financial services sector (Sustainable Finance Disclosures Regulation) (OJ
L 317, 9.12.2019, p. 1).

VSME Standard
(c) construction sector: asbestos -containing materials (EWC Code 17 09 03*), soil and stones
containing hazardous substances (EWC Code 17 05 03 *), and
(d) batteries  and accumulators: lead batteries (16 06 01*), Ni -Cd batteries (16 06 02 *), batteries
containing  mercury (16 06 03*).
164. Nevertheless, a waste is considered hazardous if it displays one or more of the hazardous
properties listed in Annex II of the Waste Framework Directive. For easier reference, these are
presented below together with the respective pictograms to help identify hazardous properties such
as flammability, toxicity and corrosiveness, which may lead to waste being classified as hazardous.
165. Radioactive waste  also has or can have hazardous properties that render it hazardous, namely
carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction. Nevertheless, radioactive substances are
subject to separate regulations within the EU11. Companies using radioactive materials with the
ability of generating radioactive waste subject to EU regulation should be aware of it. Radioactive
waste should be identified based on the presence of radionuclides at levels above regulatory
clearance thresholds.
166. Radioactive waste  can be present in a variety of items  such as medical, research and industrial
equipment, smoke detectors, or sludges.
167. Hazard Pictograms for each hazard class  are presented below.
Hazard pictogram  Pictogram
statement,
symbol and
class  What does it mean?
‘Gas under
pressure ’
Symbol: Gas
cylinder
Physical Hazard  • Contains gas under pressure; may explode if heated
• Contains refrigerated gas; may cause cryogenic burns or
injury
‘Explosive ’
Symbol:
Exploding bomb
Physical Hazard  • Unstable explosive
• Explosive; mass explosion hazard
• Explosive; severe projection hazard
• Explosive; fire, blast or projection hazard
• May mass explode in fire
‘Oxidising ’
Symbol: Flame
over circle
Physical Hazard  • May cause or intensify fire; oxidiser.
• May cause fire or explosion; strong oxidiser.
11 EU's Radioactive Waste and Spent Fuel Management Directive (2011/70/Euratom). For more information see
the  EU’s webpage on Radioactive Waste and spent fuel.

VSME Standard
‘Flammable ’
Symbol: Flame
Physical Hazard  • Extremely flammable gas
• Flammable gas
• Extremely flammable aerosol
• Flammable aerosol
• Highly flammable liquid and vapour
• Flammable liquid and vapour
• Flammable solid
‘Corrosive ’
Symbol:
Corrosion
Physical Hazard
/ Health Hazard  • May be corrosive to metals
• Causes severe skin burns and eye damage
‘Health
hazard/Hazard
ous to the
ozone layer’
Symbol:
Exclamation
mark
Health Hazard  • May cause respiratory irritation
• May cause drowsiness or dizziness
• May cause an allergic skin reaction
• Causes serious eye irritation
• Causes skin irritation
• Harmful if swallowed
• Harmful in contact with skin
• Harmful if inhaled
• Harms public health and the environment by
destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere
‘Acute toxicity’
Symbol: Skulls
and Crossbones
Health Hazard  • Fatal if swallowed
• Fatal in contact with skin
• Fatal if inhaled
• Toxic: if swallowed
• Toxic in contact with skin
• Toxic if inhaled

VSME Standard
‘Serious health
hazard’
Symbol: Health
Hazard
Health Hazard  • May be fatal if swallowed and enters airways
• Causes damage to organs
• May cause damage to organs
• May damage fertility or the unborn child
• Suspected of damaging fertility or the unborn child
• May cause cancer
• Suspected of causing cancer
• May cause genetic defects
• Suspected of causing genetic defects
• May cause allergy or asthma symptoms or breathing
difficulties if inhaled
‘Hazardous to
the
environment ’
Symbol:
Environment
Environmental
Hazard  • Very toxic to aquatic life with long -lasting effects
• Toxic to aquatic life with long -lasting effects
Pictograms that indicate hazardous properties, Annex V, from the Classification, Labelling and
Packaging (CLP) Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 .
168. When presenting information on its waste generation or diversion from disposal, the undertaking
should preferably report such information in units of weight (e.g. kg or tonnes). Nevertheless,
should the units of weight be considered an inappropriate unit b y the undertaking, they may
alternatively disclose the aforementioned metrics in volumes (e.g. m3) instead.
169. When disclosing information on the total annual waste diverted to recycling  or reuse, the
undertaking should consider the waste that is sorted and sent to recycling  or reuse operators  (e.g.
the amount of waste put into recycling container or  sorting of waste into certain categories of
materials and their delivery to waste treatment facilities)  rather than the waste that gets  effectively
recycled  or reused .
170. When disclosing  information on waste , the undertaking may adopt the following  table s.
Waste generated (e.g. tonnes)
Total waste generated , of which:
Waste
diverted to
recycle or
reuse  Waste
directed
disposal

VSME Standard
Non-hazardous waste
Type of waste1
Type of waste2
...
Hazardous waste
Type of waste1
...
171. Examples of hazardous waste s that small businesses may generate include batteries, used oils,
pesticides , mercury -containing equipment  and fluorescent  lamps .
172. The undertaking may provide further breakdowns specifying further types of non-hazardous and
hazard ous wastes . In doing so , it may consider the list of waste descriptions found in the
European Waste Catalogue ’s social metrics .
Guidance on the annual mass -flow of relevant materials used
173. The annual mass -flow is an indicator aligned with the EMAS requirements on efficiency of material
consumption , and it illustrates an undertaking's dependency on specific materials in its operations
(e.g. wood and steel for the construction  industry) . The undertaking is here required to provide
information on the material s it uses , including both the materials acquired from suppliers and those
sourced internally from production.  To compute the annual mass -flow of the relevant materials it
has used, the undertaking will need to first identify the specific key materials on which its operations
are dependent and for which material efficiency needs to be evaluated (e.g. material efficiency of
wood ). If different types of materials are used, the  undertaking will need to provide  separately the
annual mass -flow (i.e. total weight for each relevant material use d, e.g. tonnes of wood purchased)
for each key material in an appropriate manner, for example by breaking it down by the use to
which they are put ( EMAS, 2023 ). The mass flow of relevant materials used will result from the
sum of the weight of all used materials, including  raw materials, auxiliary materials, input materials,
semi -finished products or others (excluding energy sources and water)  and provide the total weight
for each relevant material used (e.g. tonnes of wood purchased). The m ass flow of relevant
materials used will result  from the  sum of the weight of all used materials,  includ ing raw materials,
auxiliary materials, input materials, semi -finished products, or others (excluding energy sources
and water).This indicator is to be preferably expressed in units of weight (e.g. kilograms or tonnes),
volume (e.g. m³) or other metric units commonly used in the sector.
Guidance on how to identify manufacturing, constructions and /or packaging processes
174. To identify manufacturing, construction and/or packaging processes, the undertaking may refer to
the activities that fall under Section C – Manufacturing, Section F – Construction as well as Class
N82.92 ‘Packaging activities ’ of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1893/200612.
Basic Module Guidance – Social Metrics