B8 – Workforce – General characteristics
175. Full-time equivalent (FTE)  is the number of full -time positions in an undertaking . It can be
calculated by dividing an employee ’s scheduled hours (total effective hours worked in a week) by
the employer's hours for a full -time workweek (total hours performed by full -time employees) . For
example, an employee who works 25 hours every week for a company where the full -time week is
40 hours represents a 0,625 FTE (i .e. 25/ 40 hours) .
12 L_2006393EN.01000101.xml (europa.eu) .

VSME Standard
176. Headcount is the  total number of  people employed by the undertaking  at a given time .
Guidance on how to present  information about  employees’ contract types
177. The following table shows how information on employees  may be presented  by type of
employment contract .
Type of contract  Number of employees ( headcount or full-time equivalents)
Temporary contract
Permanent contract
Total employees
178. The following table shows how  information on employees  may be presented by gender.
Gender  Number of employees ( headcount or full-time equivalents)
Male
Female
Other
Not reported
Total employees
179. In some European Union Member States , it is possible for people to legally register themselves as
having a third  gender , often neutral, which is to be categorised as ‘other ’ in the table above. If the
undertaking is disclosing data about employees  where this is not possible, it may explain this and
indicate that the ‘other ’ category is not applicable. The ‘not reported ’ category applies to employees
who do not disclose their gender identity .
180. The following table shows how  information on employee s may be presented by countries .
Country  (of
employment
contract)  Number of employees ( headcount or full-time equivalents)
Country A
Country B
Country C
Country D
Total employees
181. Definitions  and types  of employment contracts  may vary depending on the countr y. If the
undertaking has employees  working in more than one country, it shall use the legal definitions
stipulated in the national laws of the countries where the employees are based in to calculate
country -level data. Such country -level data shall then be added up to calculate total numbers,
disregarding differences in national legal definitions .
182. Employee  turnover refers to employees who leave the undertaking  voluntarily or due to dismissal,
retirement or death in service.
183. In order to calculate the turnover  rate, the formula below should be used .
𝑁𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟  𝑜𝑓 𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠  𝑤ℎ𝑜 𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡  𝑑𝑢𝑟𝑖𝑛𝑔  𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔  𝑦𝑒𝑎𝑟
𝐴𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒  𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟  𝑜𝑓 𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠  𝑑𝑢𝑟𝑖𝑛𝑔  𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔  𝑦𝑒𝑎𝑟 𝑥 100