B9 – Workforce – Health and safety
Guidance on the rate of recordable work -related accidents
184. Based on the assumption that one full -time worker works 2,000 hours per year, the rate indicates
the number of work -related accidents per 100 full -time workers over a yearly time  frame. If the
undertaking cannot calculate directly the number of hours worked, it may estimate this on the basis
of normal or standard hours of work.
185. In order to calculate the rate of recordable work -related  accidents  of employees , the formula
below  should  be used .

VSME Standard
𝑁𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟  𝑜𝑓 𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑘  𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑  𝑎𝑐𝑐𝑖𝑑𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠  𝑖𝑛 𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔  𝑦𝑒𝑎𝑟
𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙  𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟  𝑜𝑓 ℎ𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠  𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑑  𝑖𝑛 𝑎 𝑦𝑒𝑎𝑟  𝑏𝑦 𝑎𝑙𝑙 𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠   𝑥 200 ,000
Example
186. Company A reported three  work -related accidents in the reporting year. Company A has 40
employees , and a total number of 80,000 hours ( 40 x 2,000) worked in a year.
The rate of recordable work -related  accidents is 3/ 80,000 x 200,000 = 7.5.
Guidance on the number of fatalities resulting from  work -related injuries and work -related  ill health
187. Work -related injuries and work -related ill health arise from exposure to dangers at work.
188. In case of teleworking, injuries and ill health are  work -related if the injury or ill health is directly
related to the performance of work rather than  the general home environment.
189. In case of injuries and ill health that occur while a person is travelling for work, these are considered
work -related if the employee  was performing  work activities in the interest of the employer at the
time of the injury or  ill health.  Accidents  taking place  when travel ling, outside  of the undertaking’s
responsibility (i.e. regular commuting to and from work) , are subject to the applicable national
legislation , which  regulates their categorisation as to whether they are considered work -related or
not.
190. Mental illness is considered work -related if it has been notified voluntarily by the relevant worker
and if an evaluation from a licensed healthcare professional stat ing that the illness  in question  is
indeed work -related  has been issue d and notified, too . Health problems resulting from smoking,
drug and alcohol abuse, physical inactivity, unhealthy diets and psychosocial factors not connected
to work are not considered work -related.
191. The undertaking may present separate ly fatalities resulting from work -related injuries and those
resulting from work -related  ill health.