C3 – GHG reduction and climate transition
216. Emission reductions can prove  to be both  a challenge and opportunity for an undertaking, as it
often requires changes to the strategic and operational reality of the business. The goal of reducing
emissions may require a review of strategic and financial priorities. Decarbonisation may require
important initial investment in, for example, electr ifying  a fleet of vehicles, implement ing new
technologies to reduce energy consumption or develop ing new product lines that are less reliant
on carbon -intensive materials. On the other hand, implementing l ow-carbon solutions to achieve
GHG emission reduction can significantly lessen the costs of purchased energy and materials.
Undertakings embarking on their decarbonisation journey are often facing important adjustments
to their business models or daily ope rations. For instance, a logistics and delivery services
undertaking may need to redesign its fleet management to minimise potential service disruptions
due to the need of regular vehicle charging. A consumer goods manufacturing undertaking
planning to rep lace a component of its product with a sustainable, low -carbon alternative may need
to allocate time and resources to product innovation and to searching  for new suppliers. These
efforts can, in turn, result in reducing costs, accessing new markets, creating new workplaces and
attracting additional financing, making GHG emission reduction not only a challenge, but also a
strategic business opportunity. In t his context, targets  for GHG reductions are an important
measure of responding to the need for a  susta inable transition, as they allow undertaking s to
manage the change in a systematic, controlled and organised way .
217. A GHG emission reduction target is a commitment to reduce the undertaking’s GHG emissions in
a future year compared to the GHG emissions measured during  a chosen base year. Actions that
may lead to e mission reductions include,  for instance, electrification, renewable electricity,
sustainable products development, etc. Disclosure C3 requires  that the undertaking disclose s
GHG emission reduction targets  for its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
218. Removals and avoided emissions shall not be accounted as reduction of the undertaking’s gross
GHG emissions . This is due to the important distinction between accounting practices for gross
GHG emissions (inventory accounting) and GHG removals and avoided emissions (project -based
or intervention accounting). Gross GHG emissions of the undertaking are designed to tr ack the
actual emissions released to the environment, providing a consistent and comparable baseline to
set up GHG targets . Avoided emissions and carbon removals, on the other hand, relate to specific
project activities of the undertaking, which means that their accounting is done separately from
gross GHG emissions .
219. To follow this practice, the undertaking need s to distinguish between its gross GHG emissions and
other impacts  which are not captured in it, such as GHG removals and avoided emissions.

VSME Standard
Removals refer to the withdrawal of GHG from the atmosphere as a result of deliberate human
activities. Example s of such activities can include plant growth (transfer of atmospheric CO 2
through photosynthesis) and direct air capture of CO 2 and are typically linked to the subsequent
storage of CO 2. Avoided GHG emissions are typically referred to as emissions that would have
otherwise happened but that, as a result of the undertaking’s activities, did not happen. These may
include introducing new products and technologies that reduce demand for their carbon -intensive
equivalents, for example insulatio n solutions in a building that avoid the demand for energy
services therein. More information on the concepts related to carbon removals and avoided
emissions can be found in the GHG Protocol Land Sector and Removals Guidance13 as well as
the WBCSD guidance14.
220. A base year is a preceding year against which the undertaking’s current GHG emissions  can be
measured . In general, the base year should be a recent and representative year of the
undertaking’s GHG emissions in which there are verifiable data.
221. The target year is the year in the future in which the undertaking aims to achiev e a certain absolute
or percentage  amount  of GHG emission reductions. It should range over a period from one to three
years from the base year to a short -term target. Longer term targets  may also be included, for
instance, for periods of twenty or thirty years (e.g . 2040 or 2050). Undertakings are encouraged to
include target values for the short -term target  year of 2030 at the least and, if feasible, for the long -
term year  of 2050. From 2030 onwards,  it is recommended to update the base year and target
year for GHG emission reduction targets  after every five -year period .
222. To set a target, undertakings should consider the existing scientific evidence on GHG mitigation.
The SBTi recommends a cross -sector target in GHG emissions reduction of -42% by the year 2030
and -90% by the year 2050  (base year 2020) . The Stockholm Resilience Centre also proposes a
‘carbon law’ that sets out concrete steps to achieve full decarbonisation by 2050 based on a flexible
way of thinking  about reducing carbon emissions  by halving emissions every decade and
increasing renewable energy  roll-out exponentially. The authors argued that this roadmap would
ensure a 75% chance of keeping the Earth below 2 °C above pre -industrial temperatures  – the
target set out in the Paris agreement15. SBTi also proposes a streamlined target -setting route for
small - and medium -sized  undertakings16. Specific pathways also exist by sector and may be
considered by undertakings when setting their GHG emission reduction targets .
223. To achieve a quick reduction of both direct and indirect emissions, there are some simple actions
that the undertaking can take. Some actions may be easy but still able to deliver a notable emission
reduction and support the undertaking  reaching its targets . For instance, electrification of the
vehicle fleet by replacing vehicle s running on fossil fuel with electric vehicles will lead to emission
reduction as soon as the previous fleet is replaced. This can mean notable emission reduction
especially for a b usiness that is reliant on transportation. Similarly, replacing commutes and
business travels by car with low carbon alternatives such as bicycles or public transport is an
effective, simple and achievable decarbonisation action. Another area of low-hanging fruit is to
review the internal energy management and update it to energy -efficient equipment and integrate
maintenance into routine business operations. By regularly maintaining equipment and machinery
and replacing these with more energy -efficient alte rnatives when and where possible, the
undertaking can reduce its energy consumption. Such equipment can include , for example , boilers,
telecommunication systems, heat pumps, air -conditioning etc. Through regular maintenance their
efficient operation can be ensured, wear and tear minimised and waste minimised. By also
13 GHG Protocol Land Sector and Removals Guidance (https://ghgprotocol.org/land -sector -and-removals -
guidance)
14 World Business Council for Sustainable Development (2023), Guidance on Avoided Emissions.
(https://www.wbcsd.org/wp -content/uploads/2023/09/Climate -Avoided -Emissions -guidance_WBCSD.pdf) .
15 Rockström, J., Gaffney, O., Rogelj, J. et. al. 2017. A roadmap for rapid decarbonization. Science, Volume 355
Issue 6331. Available at: https://www.stockholmresilience.org/research/research -news/2017 -03-23-curbing -
emissions -with-a-new-carbon -law.html .
16 SBTI https://sciencebasedtargets.org/small -and-medium -enterprise -sme-target -setting -process .  SBTI offers
resources for SMEs to set science based targets: https://sciencebasedtargets.org/small -and-medium -enterprise -
sme-target -setting -process .

VSME Standard
automating systems and using timers to define periods of use, the undertaking is able to lower the
emissions of such equipment even further.
224. A climate transition plan for climate change mitigation  is a set of present and future actions  meant
to align the undertaking ’s business model, strategy and operations  with the key overarching global
goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C . Underpinned by a GHG reduction target compatible with
that goal , the importance of having a transition plan in place lies in the ability of understanding  the
means by which the undertaking will move towards a low -carbon economy while keeping track of
the progress made . A transition plan serves as a mechanism for accountability and transparency ,
prompting  undertakings to develop credible pathways for mitigating climate change through their
actions .
225. Establishing a credible transition plan for the undertaking is something that  should be supported
by elements such as (a) identifying clear responsibilities and roles; (b) integrating the plan in to the
undertaking’s business strategy and financial planning; (c) including information on
decarbonisation levers and pathways as well as quantifiable indicators that can be monitored
throughout predefined timeframes; (d) allowing for regular reviewing and updating after
stakeholder consultations when appropriate; and (e) covering the entirety of its own operations
and, to the largest possible extent, the value chain  or else providing an explanation as to any
limitation.
226. Undertakings that  are disclosing targets  according to the EMAS Regulation  Annex IV B (d)  may
use its GHG reduction targets to fulfil the VSME requirement  if it has set such targets . The
undertaking may also support this disclosure through  its implementation of the EMAS
environmental management system  and link to  EN ISO 14001:2015 as set out by EMAS
Regulation Annex II B A.6.2.1 and B.5 (environmental objectives).
Guidance on how to identify manufacturing, constructions and /or packaging processes
227. To identify manufacturing, construction and/or packaging processes, the und ertaking may refer to
these activities that fall under Section C – Manufacturing , Section F Construction  as well as  Class
N82.92 ‘Packaging activities ’ of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006.