C9 – Gender diversity ratio in governance body
242. The governance  body refers to the highest decision -making authority in a company. Depending
on the jurisdiction the company is in and its legal entity classification, the governance body can
vary in format.
243. Based on the requirements in the SFDR, the gender diversity ratio of the governance  body is
calculated as an average ratio of female to male board members.
𝐺𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑟  𝑑𝑖𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑦  𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜 =𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟  𝑜𝑓 𝑓𝑒𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒  𝑚𝑒𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟𝑠
𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟   𝑜𝑓 𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒  𝑚𝑒𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟𝑠
Example
244. The governance  body of a certain SME is composed of six members, including three women. The
gender diversity ratio is one – for every female member there is one male member.

VSME Standard
Appendix A: Defined terms
This appendix is an integral part of th is Standard.
Defined term  Definition
Accident prevention  Accident prevention refers to the policies and initiatives  to prevent
workplace accidents and ensure the safety and well -being of employees.
This not only includes measures to reduce physical risks but also involves
fostering a safe and inclusive work environment free from discrimination
and harassment.
Actions  Actions refer to (i) actions and actions plans (including transition plans)
that are under taken  to ensure that the undertaking delivers against
targets  set and through which the undertaking seeks to address material
impacts, risks and opportunities; and (ii) decisions to support these with
financial, human or technological resources.
Affected communities  People or group (s) living or working in the same geographical area that
have been or may be affected by a reporting undertaking’s operations or
through its upstream and downstream value chain. Affected communities
can range from those living adjacent to the undertaking’s operations
(local communities) to those living at a distance. Affected communities
include actually and potentially affected indigenous peoples.
Biodiversity  sensitive
Area  Biodiversity  sensitive areas include : Natura 2000 network of protected
areas, UNESCO World Heritage sites and Key Biodiversity Areas
(‘KBAs ’), as well as other protected areas , as referred to  in Appendix D
of Annex II to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139.
Business Conduct  The following matters  are collectively referred to as ‘business conduct or
business conduct matters’ :
(a) business ethics and corporate culture, including anti -corruption and
anti-bribery, the protection of whistleblowers , and animal welfare;
(b) the management of relationships with suppliers, including payment
practices, especially with regard to late payment to small and medium -
sized undertakings .
(c) activities and commitments of the undertaking related to exerting its
political influence, including its lobbying activities .
Child Labour  Work that deprives children of their childhood, potential, and dignity and
harms their physical and mental development. It includes work that is
mentally, physically, socially, or morally dangerous and/or interferes with
their schooling (by preventing  them from the opportunity to attend
school ).
Collective bargaining  All negotiations which take place between an employer, a group of
employers or one or more employers' organisations , on the one hand,
and one or more trade unions or, in their absence, the representatives of
the workers duly elected and authorised by them in accordance with
national laws and regulations , on the other, for: i) determining working
conditions and terms of employment; and/or ii) regulating relations
between employers and workers ; and/or  regulating relations between
employers or their organisations and a workers' organisation or workers'
organisations.
Corruption  Abuse of entrusted power for private gain, which can be instigated by
individuals or organisations. It includes practices such as facilitation

VSME Standard
Defined term  Definition
payment s, fraud, extortion, collusion , and money laundering. It also
includes an offer or receipt of any gift, loan, fee, reward , or other
advantage  to or from any person as an inducement to do something  that
is dishonest , illegal , or a breach of trust in the conduct of the
undertaking’s business. This can include cash or in -kind benefits , such
as free goods, gifts , and holidays , or special personal services provided
for the purpose of an improper advantage , or that can result in moral
pressure to receive such an advantage.
Consumers  Individuals who acquire, consume or use goods and services for
personal use, either for themselves or for others , and not for resale,
commercial or trade, business, craft or profession purposes.
Classified information  EU classified i nformation as defined in  Council Decision of 23
September 2013 on the security rules for protecting EU classified
information (2013/488/EU) or classified by one of the Member States
and marked as per Appendix B of that Council decision.
EU classified information means any information designated by a EU
security classification , of which the unauthorised disclosure could cause
varying degrees of prejudice to the interests of the European Union or of
one or more of the Member States. Classified information may be
classified according to four levels: top secret, secret, confidential ,
restricted (based on the definition from the Council Decision).
Circular economy
principles  The European circular economy principles are usability ; reusability ;
repairability ; disassembly ; remanufacturing or refurbishment ; recycling ;
recirculation by the biological cycle ; other potential optimisation of
product and  material use.
Climate  change
adaptation  The process of adjustment to actual and expected climate change and
its impacts.
Climate -related
physical risks  Risks resulting from climate change that can be event -driven (acute) or
from longer -term shifts (chronic) in climate patterns. Acute physical risks
arise from particular hazards, especially weather -related events such as
storms, floods, fires or heatwaves. Chronic physical risks arise from
longer -term changes in the climate , such as temperature changes , and
their effects on rising sea levels, reduced water availability, biodiversity
loss and changes in land and soil productivity.
Direct GHG emissions
(Scope 1)  Direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the
undertaking.
Discrimination  Discrimination can occur directly or indirectly. Direct discrimination
occurs when an individual is treated less favourably by comparison to
how others, who are in a similar situation. Indirect discrimination occurs
when an apparently neutral rule disadvan tages a person or a group
sharing the same characteristics.
Employee  An individual who is in an employment relationship with the undertaking
according to national law or practice.
End-users  Individuals who ultimately use or are intended to ultimately use a
particular product or service.
Forced Labour  All work or service which is exacted from any person under the threat of
penalty and for which the person has not offered himself or herself

VSME Standard
Defined term  Definition
voluntarily according to the ILO Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No.29).
The term encompasses all situations in which persons are coerced by any
means to perform work.
Grievance mechanism  Any routinized, state -based or non-state -based, judicial or non -judicial
processes through which stakeholders can raise grievances and seek
remedy. Examples of state -based judicial and non -judicial grievance
mechanisms include courts, labour tribunals, national human rights
institutions, National Contact Points under the OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, ombudsperson offices, consumer protection
agencies, regulatory oversight bodies, and government -run complaints
offices. Non -state -based grievance mechanisms include those
administered by the undertaking, either alone or together with
stakeholders, such as operational -level grievance mechanisms and
collective bargaining, including the mechanisms established by collective
bargaining. They also include mechanisms administered by industry
associations, international organisations, civil society organisations , or
multi -stakeholder groups. Operational -level grievance mechanisms are
administered by the organisation  either alone or in collaboration with other
parties and are directly accessible by the organisation’s stakeholders.
They allow for grievances to be identified and addressed early and
directly , thereby preventing both harm and grievances from escalating.
They also provide important feedback on the effectiveness of the
organisation’s due diligence from those  who are directly affected.
According to UN Guiding Principle 31, effective grievance mechanisms
are legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent, right s-
compatible , and a source of continuous learning. In addition to these
criteria, effective operational -level grievance mechanisms are also based
on engagement and dialogue. It can be more difficult for the organisation
to assess the effectiveness of grievance mechanis ms that it participates
in compared to  those it has established itself.
Greenhouse Gases
(GHG)  For the purposes of this Standard, GHGs are the six gases listed in the
Kyoto Protocol: carbon dioxide (CO 2); methane (CH 4); nitrous oxide
(N2O); Nitrogen trifluoride (NF 3); hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs);
perfluorocarbons (PFCs) ; and sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6).
Governance  The governance is the system of rules, practices and processes by
which a company is directed and controlled .
Gross greenhouse gas
(GHG)  emissions  Gross greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions are total GHG emissions
released by the undertaking into the atmosphere, without considering
any deductions for carbon removals or other adjustments.
Hazardous waste  Waste which displays  one or more of the hazardous properties listed in
Annex III of Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council  on waste.
Human trafficking  The recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or reception of
persons, including the exchange or transfer of control over those
persons, by means of the threat or use of force or other forms of
coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of deception, of the abuse of power or of
a position of vulnerability or of the giving or receiving of payments o r
benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another
person, for the purpose of exploitation .

VSME Standard
Defined term  Definition
Incident  A legal action or complaint registered with the undertaking or competent
authorities through a formal process , or an instance of non -compliance
identified by the undertaking through established procedures.
Established procedures to identify instances of non -compliance can
include management system audits, formal monitoring programs , or
grievance mechanisms .
Indirect GHG emissions
(Scope 2)  Indirect emissions are a consequence of  the operations of the
undertaking but occur at  sources owned or controlled by another
company. Scope 2 GHG emissions are indirect emissions from the
generation of purchased or acquired electricity, steam and heat, or
cooling consumed by the undertaking.
Impact  Impact refers to the effect an organi sation has or could have on the
economy, environment, and people, including effects on their human
rights, as a result of the organization’s activities or business
relationships. The impacts can be actual or potential, negative or
positive, short -term or lo ng-term, intended or unintended, direct or
indirect, and reversible or irreversible. These impacts indicate the
organization’s contribution, negative or positive, to sustainable
development. The impacts on the economy,  environment, and people
are interrelated.
The organization’s impacts on the environment refer to the impacts on
living organisms and non -living elements, including air, land, water, and
ecosystems. An organization can have an impact on the environment
through, for example, its use of energy, land,  water, and other natural
resources.
The organization’s impacts on people refer to the impacts on individuals
and groups, such as communities, vulnerable groups, or society. This
includes the impacts the organization has on people’s human rights. An
organization can have an impact on people t hrough, for example, its
employment practices (e.g. the wages it pays to employees), its supply
chain (e.g . the working conditions of workers of suppliers), and its
products and services (e.g. their safety or accessibility).
Land -use (change)  The human use of a specific area for a certain  purpose (such as
residential; agriculture; recreation ; industrial, etc.) . Influenced by land
cover (grass, asphalt, trees, bare ground, water, etc). Land -use change
refers to a change in the use or management of  land by humans, which
may lead to a change in land cover.
Location -based Scope
2 emissions  Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased or
acquired and consumed by the reporting company , calculated using the
location -based ‘allocating’ method, which allocates generator emissions
to end -users . They reflect the average emissions intensity of grids on
which the energy consumption occurs and uses mostly grid -average
emission factor data. Typical sources of Scope 2 emissions relate to any
equipment that consumes electricity (electrical engines, lights, b uildings,
etc.), heat (heating in industrial processes, buildings, etc.), steam
(industrial processes) and cooling (industrial processes, buildi ngs, etc.).
Nature -oriented area  A “nature -oriented area” is an  area dedicated primarily to nature
preservation or restoration. They can be located on -site and include
elements like roof, façade,  water drainages  designed , to promote
biodiversity. Nature -oriented area s can also be located outside the
organisation site provided that the area  is owned or (co -)managed by the

VSME Standard
Defined term  Definition
organisation and is primarily dedicated to promoting biodiversity.
(Adapted from  EMAS regulation )
Near (Biodiversity
Sensitive Area)  Near, in the context of B5 – Biodiversity, shall refer to an area that is
(partially) overlapping or adjacent to a biodiversity sensitive area.
Own workforce/own
workers  Employees who are in an employment relationship with the undertaking
(‘employees’) and non -employees who are either individual contractors
supplying labour to the undertaking (‘self -employed people’) or people
provided  by undertaking s primarily engaged in ‘employment activities’
(NACE Code N78).
Pay The o rdinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any other
remuneration, whether in cash or in kind which the worker receives
directly or indirectly (‘complementary or variable components’) , in
respect of  his/her  employment from his/her  employer. ‘Pay level’ means
gross annual pay and the corresponding gross hourly pay. ‘Median pay
level’ means the pay of the employee that would have half of the
employees earn more and half less than they do .
Policy  A set or framework of general objectives and management
principles that  the undertaking uses for decision -making. A policy
implements the  undertaking’s strategy or management decisions
related to a sustainability  issue . Each policy is under the
responsibility of defined  person(s), specifies its perimeter of
application, and includes one or more  objectives (linked when
applicable to measurable targets). A policy is  implemented
through actions or action plans.
For example, undertakings with less resources may have few (or
no) policies formalised in written documents, but this does not
necessarily  mean they do not have policies.
If the undertaking has not yet formalised a policy but has
implemented  actions or defined targets through which the
undertaking seeks to  address  sustainability issues , it shall disclose
them.
Radioactive waste  Any radioactive material in gaseous, liquid, or solid form, for which no
further use is foreseen, as per Article 3(7) of Council Directive
2011/70/Euratom17.
Recordable work -
related accident  /
Recordable work -
related injury or  ill
health  A work -related accident is an event that leads to physical or mental harm
therefore to injury or ill health . It happens whilst engaged in an
occupational activity or during the time spent at work . Recordable means
diagnosed by a physician or other licensed health care professionals.
Work -related injury or ill health  can result in any of the following: death,
days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job, medical
17 Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19  July 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible and
safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste .18Article 2(1) Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources
Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion
of the use of energy from renewable s ources (OJ L 328, 21.12.2018, p. 82).19 This disclosure requirement is
consistent with the requirements included in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 - Template 5:
Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk.

VSME Standard
Defined term  Definition
treatment beyond first aid or loss of consciousness . Injuries that do not
require medical treatment beyond first aid are generally not recordable.
Recycling  Any recovery operation by which waste materials are reprocessed into
products, materials or substances whether  for the original or other
purposes . It includes the reprocessing of organic material but does not
include energy recovery and the reprocessing into materials that are to
be used as fuels or for backfilling operations .
Renewable Energy  Energy from renewable non -fossil sources, namely wind, solar (solar
thermal and solar photovoltaic) and geothermal energy, ambient energy,
tide, wave and other ocean energy, hydropower, biomass, landfill gas,
sewage treatment plant gas, and biogas18.
Sealed area  A sealed area means a ny area where the original soil has been covered
(such as roads) making it impermeable. This non -permeability  can create
environmental impacts.
Sensitive information  Sensitive i nformation as defined in Regulation (EU) 2021/697 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2021 establishing the
European Defence Fund.
Sensitive information means  information and data , including classified
information,  that is to be protected from  unauthorised access or
disclosure because of  obligations laid down  in Union or national law or in
order to safeguard the privacy or security of a natural or legal person.
Site The location of one or more physical installations. If there is more than
one physical installation from the same or different owners or operators
and certain infrastructure and facilities are shared, the entire area where
the physical installation are loc ated may constitute a site.
Targets  Measurable , outcome -oriented and time -bound goals that the SME aims
to achieve in relation to sustainability issues . They may be set voluntarily
by the SME or derive from legal requirements on the undertaking .
Time horizons  When preparing its sustainability report, the undertaking shall adopt  the
following time horizons:
(a) for the short -term time horizon, one year;
(b) for the medium -term time horizon, from two to five years; and
(c) for the long -term time horizon, more than five years.
Training  Initiatives put in place by the undertaking aimed at the maintenance
and/or improvement of skills and knowledge of its own workers. It can
include different methodologies , such as on -site training, and online
training.
18Article 2(1) Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on
the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (OJ L 328,
21.12.2018, p. 82).19 This disclosure requirement is consistent with the requirements included in Commission
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 - Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures
subject to physical risk.

VSME Standard
Defined term  Definition
Value Chain The full range of activities, resources and relationships related to the
undertaking’s business model and the external environment in which it
operates. A value chain encompasses the activities, resources and
relationships the undertaking uses and relies o n to create its products or
services from conception to delivery, consumption and end -of- life.
Relevant activities, resources and relationships include : a) those in the
undertaking’s own operations , such as human resources; b) those along
its supply, mark eting and distribution channels , such as material s and
service sourcing and product and service sale and delivery; and c) the
financing, geographical, geopolitical and regulatory environments in
which the undertaking operates. Value chain includes actors upstream
and downstream from the undertaking. Actors  upstream from the
undertaking (e.g. suppliers) provide products or services that are used in
the development of the undertaking’s products or services. Entities
downstream from the undertaking (e.g. distributors , customers) receive
products or services from the undertaking.
Wage  Gross wage , excluding variable components such as overtime and
incentive pay , and excluding allowances unless they are guaranteed .
Water consumption  The amount of water drawn into the boundaries of the undertaking (or
facility) and not discharged back to the water environment or a third party
over the course of the reporting period.
Water withdrawal  The sum  of all water drawn into the boundaries of the undertaking from
all sources for any use over the course of the reporting period.
Worker in the value
chain  An individual performing work in the value chain of the undertaking ,
regardless of the existence or nature of any contractual relationship with
the undertaking. In the ESRS, the scope of workers in the value chain
include all workers in the undertaking’s upstream and downstream value
chain who are or can be materially impacted by the undertaking. This
includes  impacts that are connected to the undertaking’s own operations ,
and value chain, including through its products or services , as well as
through its business relationships. This includes all workers who are not
in the scope of ‘Own Workforce’ (‘Own Workforce’ includes  people who
are in an employment relationship with the undertaking (‘employees’)
and non -employees who are either individual contractors supplying
labour to the undertaking (‘self -employed people’) or people provided  by
undertakings primarily engaged in employment activities (NACE Code
N78).

VSME Standard
Appendix B: List of possible sustainability issues
The appendix below is an integral part of this Standard  and provides a list of possible sustainability
issues.
Topic  Sustainability issue : Sub-topic  Sustainability issue : sub -sub topic
Climate
change  − Climate change adaptation
− Climate change mitigation
− Energy
Pollution  − Pollution of air
− Pollution of water
− Pollution of soil
− Pollution of living organisms and
food resources
− Substances of concern
− Substances of very high concern
− Microplastics
Water and
marine
resources  − Water
− Marine resources   − Water consumption
− Water withdrawals
− Water discharges
− Water discharges in the oceans
− Extraction and use of marine resources
Biodiversity
and
ecosystems  − Direct impact drivers of biodiversity
loss
− Climate Change
− Land -use change, fresh water -use change
and sea -use change
− Direct exploitation
− Invasive alien species
− Pollution
− Others
− Impacts on the state of species
− Examples:
− Species population size
− Species global extinction risk
− Impacts on the extent and condition
of ecosystems
− Examples:
− Land degradation
− Desertification
− Soil sealing
− Impacts and dependencies on
ecosystem services
Circular
economy   − Resources inflows, including
resource use
− Resource outflows related to
products and services
− Waste
Own
workforce  − Working conditions  − Secure employment
− Working time
− Adequate wages
− Social dialogue

VSME Standard
Topic  Sustainability issue : Sub-topic  Sustainability issue : sub -sub topic
− Freedom of association, the existence of
works councils and the information,
consultation and participation rights of
workers
− Collective bargaining, including  rate of
workers covered by collective agreements
− Work -life balance
− Health and safety
− Equal treatment and opportunities
for all   − Gender equality and equal pay for work of
equal value
− Training and skills development
− Employment and inclusion of persons with
disabilities
− Measures against violence and haras sment
in the workplace
− Diversity
− Other work -related rights  − Child labour
− Forced labour
− Adequate housing
− Privacy
Workers in
the value
chain  − Working conditions  − Secure employment
− Working time
− Adequate wages
− Social dialogue
− Freedom of association, including the
existence of work councils
− Collective bargaining
− Work -life balance
− Health and safety
− Equal treatment and opportunities
for all  − Gender equality and equal pay for work of
equal value
− Training and skills development
− The employment and inclusion of persons
with disabilities
− Measures against violence and harassment
in the workplace
− Diversity
− Other work -related rights   − Child labour
− Forced labour
− Adequate housing
− Water and sanitation
− Privacy
Affected
communities
− Communities ’ economic, social and
cultural rights
− Adequate housing
− Adequate food
− Water and sanitation
− Land -related impacts

VSME Standard
Topic  Sustainability issue : Sub-topic  Sustainability issue : sub -sub topic
− Security -related impacts
− Communities ’ civil and political rights  − Freedom of expression
− Freedom of assembly
− Impacts on human rights defenders
− Rights of indigenous communities  − Free, prior and informed consent
− Self-determination
− Cultural rights
Consumers
and end -
users  − Information -related impacts for
consumers and/or end -users  − Privacy
− Freedom of expression
− Access to (quality) information
− Personal safety of consumers and/or
end-users  − Health and safety
− Security of  a person
− Protection of children
− Social inclusion of consumers and/or
end-users  − Non-discrimination
− Access to products and services
− Responsible marketing practices
Business
conduct  − Corporate culture
− Protection of whistle -blowers
− Animal welfare
− Political engagement
− Management of relationships with
suppliers including payment
practices
− Corruption and bribery  − Prevention and detection including training
− Incidents

VSME Standard
Appendix C : Background  information for  financial market participants that are
users of the information produced using this Standard (reconciliation with
other EU regulation s)
245. This appendix is relevant for users of the sustainability report. The table below illustrates the
Sustainable Finance Datapoints that are present in different modules of this Standard  that satisfy
the requests of multiple user types (banks, investors , large undertakings).
246. The column ‘DR number and Title’ identifies the disclosures pre sent in the different modules  (i.e.
Basic Module, and Comprehensive  Module)  that are Sustainable Finance datapoints . The column
SFDR Table 1 and/or EBA Pillar 3 and/or Benchmark Regulation illustrates how the se disclosures
relate to these regulations that are relevant for users of the sustainability report (banks, other
investors).
Topic:
Environment /
Social /
Governance  DR number and Title  SFDR Table 1
and/or
EBA Pillar 3
and/or
Benchmark
Regulation
Basic Module
General
information  B1 – Basis for preparation
The undertaking shall disclose:
vii. geolocation of sites owned, leased or managed.  EBA Pillar 319
Environment  B3 – Energy and greenhouse gas emissions
The undertaking shall disclose its total energy consumption in
MWh, with a breakdown as per the table below, if it can obtain
the necessary information to provide such a breakdown:
Renewable  Non-
renewable  Total
Electricity
(as
reflected in
utility
billings)
Fuels
Total
SFDR20
19 This disclosure requirement is consistent with the requirements included in Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 - Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to
physical risk.
20 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (SFDR), mandatory indicator #5 in Table 1 of Annex I (“Share of non -renewable
energy consumption and production”).

VSME Standard
Environment  B3 – Energy and greenhouse gas emissions
The undertaking shall disclose its estimated gross
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  in tons of CO 2
equivalent (tCO 2eq) considering the content of the GHG
Protocol Corporate Standard  (version 2004) , including :
(a) the Scope 1 GHG emissions in tCO 2eq (from
owned or controlled sources) ; and
(b) the location -based Scope 2 emissions in tCO 2eq
(i.e. emissions from the generation of purchased
energy, such as electricity, heat, steam or cooling).  SFDR21
Benchmark22
Environment  B3 – Energy and greenhouse gas emissions
The undertaking shall disclose its GHG intensity calculated by
dividing  ‘total GHG emissions’ disclosed under paragraph 30
by ‘turnover (in Euros)’ disclosed under paragraph 24(e)(iv). SFDR23
Benchmark24
Environment  B4 – Pollution of air, water and soil
If the undertaking is already required by law or other national
regulations to report to competent authorities its emissions of
pollutants, or if it voluntarily reports on them according to an
Environmental Management System, it shall disclose the
pollutan ts it emits to air, water and soil in its own operations,
with the respective amount for each pollutant. If this
information is already publicly available, the undertaking may
alternatively refer to the document where it is reported, for
example, by provid ing the relevant URL link or embedding a
hyperlink.  SFDR25
Environment  B5 – Biodiversity
The undertaking shall disclose the number and area (in
hectares) of sites that it owns, has leased, or manages in or
near a biodiversity sensitive area.   SFDR26
21 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (SFDR), mandatory indicators #1 and #2 in Table 1 of Annex I (“GHG emissions”;
Carbon footprint”)
22 Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 Benchmark Regulation, Articles 5 (1), 6 and 8 (1).
23 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU)
2019/2088 because it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by
indicator #3 in Table I of Annex I of  Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure
rules on sustainable investments (“GHG intensity of investee companies”).
24 This information is aligned with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU)  2020/1818 (Climate Benchmark
Regulation), Article  8 (1).
25 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (SFDR) because it is derived from (a) an additional indicator related to principal
adverse impacts as set out by indicator #2 in Table II of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU)
2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Emissions of air pollutants”); (b) indicator
#8 in Table I of Annex I (“Emissions to water); (c) indicator #1 in Table II of Annex I ( “Emissions of inorganic
pollutants”); and (d) indicator #3 in Table II of Annex I (“Emissions of ozone -depleting substances”).
26 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (SFDR), mandatory indicator #7 in Table 1 of Annex I (“Activities negatively affecting
biodiversity -sensitive areas”)

VSME Standard
Environment  B7 – Resource use, circular economy and waste
management
The undertaking shall disclose:
(a) the total annual generation of waste broken down
by type (non -hazardous and hazardous);  SFDR27
Social  B9 – Workforce – Health and safety
The undertaking shall disclose the following information
regarding its employees :
(a) the number and rate of recordable work -related
accidents; and
(b) the number of fatalities as a result of work -related
injuries and work -related ill health.  SFDR28
Benchmark29
Social  B10 – Workforce – Remuneration, collective bargaining
and training
The undertaking shall disclose :
(b) the percentage gap in pay between its female and
male employees . The undertaking may omit this
disclosure when its headcount is below 150
employees noting that this threshold will be
reduced to 100 employees from 7 June 2031;  SFDR30
Governance  B11 – Convictions and fines for corruption and bribery
In case of convictions and fines in the reporting period, the
undertaking shall disclose the number of convictions, and the
total amount of fines incurred for the violation of anti -
corruption and anti -bribery laws.
Benchmark31
27 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU)
2019/2088 because it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by
indicator #9 in Table I of Annex I of  Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure
rules on sustainable investments (“Hazardous waste and radioactive waste ratio”).
28 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU)
2019/2088,  as reflecting an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by  indicator #2 in
Table 3  of Annex 1 of the related Delegated Regulation with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(“Rate of accidents”)
29 Benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 as set out by indicator
“Weighted average ratio of accidents, injuries, fatalities” in section 1 and 2 of Annex 2.
30 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (SFDR), mandatory indicator #12 in Table 1 of Annex I (“Unadjusted gender pay
gap”) and (EU) 2020/1816 Benchmark Regulation (EU), indicator “Weighted average gender pay gap” in section 1
and 2 of Annex II.
31 Benchmark Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, indicator “Numbers of convictions and amount of fines for violations of
anti-corruption and anti -bribery laws” in section 1 and 2 of Annex II.

VSME Standard
Comprehensive Module
Environment  Consideration when reporting on GHG emissions under